readme.md, before:

# Vidyaratna

Vidyaratna (Jewel of Learning) is an initiative to provide a comprehensive curriculum for students to learn about computer science development and open source. This is a curated list of tutorials, guides and everything a beginner needs to know. 

### Table of Contents

* [Linux](#linux)
* [CS50](#cs50)
* [Android](#android)
* [Ruby](#ruby)
* [Ruby On Rails](#ruby-on-rails)


## Linux 

**Installation and Dual-booting**

- [Ubuntu Installation](https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/tutorial-install-ubuntu-desktop#0)
- [Ubuntu Dual Boot](https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-dual-boot-mode-windows/)
-  [Debian Dual Boot](https://www.lifewire.com/dual-boot-windows-8-1-debian-jessie-2202088)
- [Installing over DOS](https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-newbie-8/need-help-with-installing-linux-from-free-dos-899812/) 

**Common terminal commands and Bash Scripting**

- [Basic Commands](https://maker.pro/linux/tutorial/basic-linux-commands-for-beginners)
- [Bash Scripting](https://ryanstutorials.net/bash-scripting-tutorial/bash-script.php) 

**Desktop Customisation**

- [GNOME](https://itsfoss.com/gnome-tricks-ubuntu/)
- [KDE](https://opensource.com/article/17/5/7-cool-kde-tweaks-will-improve-your-life) 

**Tips and tricks**

- [Useful Commands](https://likegeeks.com/linux-command-line-tricks/)
- [Automate with Bash](https://www.tecmint.com/using-shell-script-to-automate-linux-system-maintenance-tasks/)


## CS50

- [Introduction to CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/cs50s-introduction-to-computer-science)
- [CS50 Lectures](http://cs50.tv/2017/fall/#about,lectures)
- [Problem Sets](http://cs50.tv/2017/fall/#about,psets)
- [CS50 IDE](https://ide.cs50.io/)
- [CS50 Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/cs50tv/featured)


## Android

**Programming Langauges**

##### Java

- [Official Java Documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/)
- [Java 101](https://www.javaworld.com/blog/java-101/)
- [JournalDev](https://www.journaldev.com/core-java-tutorial)
- [Programming by doing](http://programmingbydoing.com/)

[Learn how to format Java code properly](https://github.com/ribot/androidguidelines/blob/master/project_and_code_guidelines.md)

##### Kotlin

- [Android Developers Resources](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/resources)
- [Kotlin Koans](https://play.kotlinlang.org/koans/overview)

[Learn how to format Kotlin code properly](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/style-guide)


##### Dart

- [Official Dart Tutorials](https://dart.dev/tutorials)
- [Dart Codelabs](https://dart.dev/codelabs)

[Learn how to format Flutter/Dart code properly](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo)

**Application Development**

- [Google Developers Training](https://developers.google.com/training/android/)
- [Google Codelabs](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/?cat=Android)

**Android Development Tools**

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install)
- [Android Debug Bridge](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)
- [Fastboot](https://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2277112)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)

**Certification**

- [Associate Android Developer](https://developers.google.com/training/certification/associate-android-developer/)
- [Experts Program](https://developers.google.com/programs/experts/)


## Ruby

- [New to Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- [Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/ruby-programming)
- [Ruby from zero to hero](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learning-ruby-from-zero-to-hero-90ad4eecc82d/)
- [Ruby online](https://www.learnrubyonline.org/en/)
- [Ruby Book](https://theswissbay.ch/pdf/Gentoomen%20Library/Programming/Ruby/The%20Ruby%20Programming%20Language%20-%20Oreilly.pdf)

## Ruby On Rails

- [New to ROR](https://www.railstutorial.org/book)
- [Contributing to ROR](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/contributing-to-ruby-on-rails-is-not-hard-heres-how-you-can-suggest-a-new-feature-11e82ad5a69/)
- [ROR Databases](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-basics-of-ruby-on-rails-sql-databases-and-how-they-work-7a628cd42073/)
- [Basic App using ROR](https://medium.com/@riklomas/how-to-create-a-simple-jobs-board-in-ruby-on-rails-even-if-youve-never-coded-before-9b296c4df483)

Commit message:

Add new sections under "Linux" (#28)
* Add Linux

* Minor fixes

* Update readme.md

* Update readme.md

* Update readme.md

readme.md, after:

# Vidyaratna

Vidyaratna (Jewel of Learning) is an initiative to provide a comprehensive curriculum for students to learn about computer science development and open source. This is a curated list of tutorials, guides and everything a beginner needs to know. 

### Table of Contents

* [Linux](#linux)
* [CS50](#cs50)
* [Android](#android)
* [Ruby](#ruby)
* [Ruby On Rails](#ruby-on-rails)

***

## Linux 

**Why Linux?**
- Open source : apart from Linux's source code being readable to anyone, it also means that there is a whole community to support when you face issues plus it is secure comparing to other closed source OSes.
- Ease of development : programming and development in general, is a far better experience in Linux than in other OSes. 
- You do things on your own : there is a lot of learning when you use Linux, you get to understand many things about an OS and a get a touch of how everything works under the hood.

Read more [here](https://opensource.com/resources/linux)

**Installation and Dual-booting**

It is generally recommended to go with the latest LTS release of Ubuntu (18.04.2 at the time of writing). Ubuntu is one of the most popular Linux distros and is strongly recommended for beginners due to its large community and forums.

- [Ubuntu Installation](https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/tutorial-install-ubuntu-desktop#0)
- [Ubuntu Dual Boot](https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-dual-boot-mode-windows/)
-  [Debian Dual Boot](https://www.lifewire.com/dual-boot-windows-8-1-debian-jessie-2202088)
- [Installing over DOS](https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-newbie-8/need-help-with-installing-linux-from-free-dos-899812/) 

[Common issues faced during Installation](https://github.com/amfoss/vidyaratna/blob/initial/beginners/0_install_linux.md#common-errors-and-issues)

**Common terminal commands and Bash Scripting**

- [Basic Commands](https://maker.pro/linux/tutorial/basic-linux-commands-for-beginners)
- [Bash Scripting](https://ryanstutorials.net/bash-scripting-tutorial/bash-script.php) 

**Desktop Customisation**

- [GNOME](https://itsfoss.com/gnome-tricks-ubuntu/)
- [KDE](https://opensource.com/article/17/5/7-cool-kde-tweaks-will-improve-your-life) 

**Tips and tricks**

- [Useful Commands](https://likegeeks.com/linux-command-line-tricks/)
- [Automate with Bash](https://www.tecmint.com/using-shell-script-to-automate-linux-system-maintenance-tasks/)

**Looking for a laptop? Here are some suggestions -**

Generally speaking, laptops that come preinstalled with Ubuntu are highly recommended. You can also get one without a graphics card to avoid issues with battery life and driver installation. It is recommended to research about the Linux support of a particular model before getting it. If possible try to stay away from the very latest, since these devices might not have open source drivers available so always check compatibility before you go for a specific model.

There are an overwhelming number of processors out there, it's best to go with a laptop with the latest - up to date generation of Intel i3, i5 or an i7 processor.

If there is need for a device with graphics card, it is highly recommended to get one with NVIDIA graphics to use the CUDA technology. Regarding RAM, any system with 8GB or more RAM is going to fine. And if you get one with 4GB, you can usually upgrade it to 8GB or more. Also if you have enough budget, consider getting a system with an SSD instead of an HDD. 
   


## CS50

- [Introduction to CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/cs50s-introduction-to-computer-science)
- [CS50 Lectures](http://cs50.tv/2017/fall/#about,lectures)
- [Problem Sets](http://cs50.tv/2017/fall/#about,psets)
- [CS50 IDE](https://ide.cs50.io/)
- [CS50 Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/cs50tv/featured)



## Android

**Programming Langauges**

##### Java

- [Official Java Documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/)
- [Java 101](https://www.javaworld.com/blog/java-101/)
- [JournalDev](https://www.journaldev.com/core-java-tutorial)
- [Programming by doing](http://programmingbydoing.com/)

[Learn how to format Java code properly](https://github.com/ribot/androidguidelines/blob/master/project_and_code_guidelines.md)

##### Kotlin

- [Android Developers Resources](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/resources)
- [Kotlin Koans](https://play.kotlinlang.org/koans/overview)

[Learn how to format Kotlin code properly](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/style-guide)


##### Dart

- [Official Dart Tutorials](https://dart.dev/tutorials)
- [Dart Codelabs](https://dart.dev/codelabs)

[Learn how to format Flutter/Dart code properly](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo)

**Application Development**

- [Google Developers Training](https://developers.google.com/training/android/)
- [Google Codelabs](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/?cat=Android)

**Android Development Tools**

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install)
- [Android Debug Bridge](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)
- [Fastboot](https://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2277112)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)

**Certification**

- [Associate Android Developer](https://developers.google.com/training/certification/associate-android-developer/)
- [Experts Program](https://developers.google.com/programs/experts/)



## Ruby

- [New to Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- [Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/ruby-programming)
- [Ruby from zero to hero](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learning-ruby-from-zero-to-hero-90ad4eecc82d/)
- [Ruby online](https://www.learnrubyonline.org/en/)
- [Ruby Book](https://theswissbay.ch/pdf/Gentoomen%20Library/Programming/Ruby/The%20Ruby%20Programming%20Language%20-%20Oreilly.pdf)

## Ruby On Rails

- [New to ROR](https://www.railstutorial.org/book)
- [Contributing to ROR](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/contributing-to-ruby-on-rails-is-not-hard-heres-how-you-can-suggest-a-new-feature-11e82ad5a69/)
- [ROR Databases](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-basics-of-ruby-on-rails-sql-databases-and-how-they-work-7a628cd42073/)
- [Basic App using ROR](https://medium.com/@riklomas/how-to-create-a-simple-jobs-board-in-ruby-on-rails-even-if-youve-never-coded-before-9b296c4df483)
